README.md, before:

# sdi-centos7-gunicorn

(Documentation how to integrate the SDI (Sumpfgottheit's Docker Images)[https://github.com/sumpfgottheit/sdi-centos7/wiki]

This images includes the gunicorn wsgi server. Gunicorn is the process, that is started by the container and DOES NOT use supervisord or anything alike.

No virtualenvs are used, as the service the gunicorn application is the sole purpuse of the container and therefore it is not necessary.

# How to use this image

* Create a `$projectdir/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.ini` for your app.
* Create a `$projectdir/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.app` which contains the `APP_MODULE`, eg `app:app`. 
* Define an Environmentvariable `PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE` which points to your requirements-file
* Place your app within a volume - use `/pub` if you don't have a better idea.

Look at the **example** section for how to do it.

The `/pub` directory is created by the image, you can mount it as volume, store your application there and get on with it.

# Logging

Gunicorn allows to define a logging configuration via config file. The image contains a logging configuration, that defines access- anderrorloggers for gunicorn. Both log using the logstash_formatter to logfiles within the /logs directory.

The 'root' logger also logs to /logs/root_logger.log. This configuration file is copied into /docker-entrypoint-ext.d on first startup so it can be changed later on.

The logging-configuration is injected into the `gunicorn.ini` automatically. If you combine this image with my **sumpfgotthei/centos7-elk** Stack, you will get logging into elasticsearch/kibana **for free**.

# Example

To get started und to see the glory of Logging in combination with the elk put the following `docker-compose.yml` into a directory:

```
elk:
  expose:
    - 5601
  hostname: elk
  image: sumpfgottheit/centos7-elk
  ports:
    - 5601:5601
  volumes:
    - _logs:/logs
    - elk/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d:/docker-entrypoint-ext.d
    - elk/volumes/elastichsearchdata:/var/elasticsearch
    - elk/volumes/logstash.d:/etc/logstash.d
gunicorn:
  environment:
  	- PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE=/pub/requirements.txt
  expose:
    - 5000
  ports:
    - 5000:5000
  hostname: gunicorn
  image: sumpfgottheit/centos7-gunicorn
  volumes:
    - _logs/gunicorn:/logs
    - gunicorn/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d:/docker-entrypoint-ext.d
    - gunicorn/volumes/pub:/pub
```

Now run `docker-compose up`. The gunicorn container **will fail** with `gunicorn: error: No application module specified`, but all necessary directories are created - lazy we are...

## The application

Got to `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/pub` and put the following file as `app.py` into this directory:

```
from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/')
def hello_world():
    return 'Hello World!'
```

## The requirements file

The **gunicorn** container got the environment variable `PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE` set in the `docker-compose.yml`. This variable points to the `requirements` file, that pip will try to install on starting the container. 

So place the contents of the file below as `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/pub/requirements.txt` and the necessary modules for the `app.py` will be installed:

```
Flask==0.10.1
Jinja2==2.7.3
MarkupSafe==0.23
Werkzeug==0.10.4
futures==3.0.3
itsdangerous==0.24
wsgiref==0.1.2
```

## gunicorn.ini

Save this file as `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.ini`

```
import multiprocessing

bind = "0.0.0.0:5000"
workers = multiprocessing.cpu_count() * 2 + 1
threads = multiprocessing.cpu_count() * 2 + 1
chdir = "/pub"
```

## gunicorn.app

Save this file as `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.app`

```
app.app
```

Commit message:

Gunicorn now also reads Environment Variables for gunicorn.ini and gunicorn.app

README.md, after:

# sdi-centos7-gunicorn

(Documentation how to integrate the SDI (Sumpfgottheit's Docker Images)[https://github.com/sumpfgottheit/sdi-centos7/wiki]

This images includes the gunicorn wsgi server. Gunicorn is the process, that is started by the container and DOES NOT use supervisord or anything alike.

No virtualenvs are used, as the service the gunicorn application is the sole purpuse of the container and therefore it is not necessary.

# How to use this image

* Define an environmentvariable `GUNICORN_INI_FILE` which points to gunicorn.ini file. You can also put the file to
  `/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.ini`. If the environmentvariable is set and points to a file, this file has precendce 
  before the `/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.ini`.
* Define an environmentvariable `GUNICORN_APP_MODULE` which points to the a file, which contains the `APP_MODULE`, 
  eg `app:app`. Again, the `/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.app` file can be used. 
* Define an Environmentvariable `PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE` which points to your requirements-file
* Place your app within a volume - use `/pub` if you don't have a better idea.

The initialization Scripts write the files `/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/working.gunicorn.ini` and 
`/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/working.gunicorn.app`. These are the files that are then used by gunicorn. 

Look at the **example** section for how to do it.

The `/pub` directory is created by the image, you can mount it as volume, store your application there and get on with it.

# Logging

Gunicorn allows to define a logging configuration via config file. The image contains a logging configuration, that defines access- anderrorloggers for gunicorn. Both log using the logstash_formatter to logfiles within the /logs directory.

The 'root' logger also logs to /logs/root_logger.log. This configuration file is copied into /docker-entrypoint-ext.d on first startup so it can be changed later on.

The logging-configuration is injected into the `gunicorn.ini` automatically. If you combine this image with my **sumpfgotthei/centos7-elk** Stack, you will get logging into elasticsearch/kibana **for free**.

# Example

To get started und to see the glory of Logging in combination with the elk put the following `docker-compose.yml` into a directory:

```
elk:
  expose:
    - 5601
  hostname: elk
  image: sumpfgottheit/centos7-elk
  ports:
    - 5601:5601
  volumes:
    - _logs:/logs
    - elk/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d:/docker-entrypoint-ext.d
    - elk/volumes/elastichsearchdata:/var/elasticsearch
    - elk/volumes/logstash.d:/etc/logstash.d
gunicorn:
  environment:
  	- PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE=/pub/requirements.txt
  expose:
    - 5000
  ports:
    - 5000:5000
  hostname: gunicorn
  image: sumpfgottheit/centos7-gunicorn
  volumes:
    - _logs/gunicorn:/logs
    - gunicorn/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d:/docker-entrypoint-ext.d
    - gunicorn/volumes/pub:/pub
```

Now run `docker-compose up`. The gunicorn container **will fail** with `gunicorn: error: No application module specified`, but all necessary directories are created - lazy we are...

## The application

Got to `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/pub` and put the following file as `app.py` into this directory:

```
from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route('/')
def hello_world():
    return 'Hello World!'
```

## The requirements file

The **gunicorn** container got the environment variable `PIP_REQUIREMENTS_FILE` set in the `docker-compose.yml`. This variable points to the `requirements` file, that pip will try to install on starting the container. 

So place the contents of the file below as `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/pub/requirements.txt` and the necessary modules for the `app.py` will be installed:

```
Flask==0.10.1
Jinja2==2.7.3
MarkupSafe==0.23
Werkzeug==0.10.4
futures==3.0.3
itsdangerous==0.24
wsgiref==0.1.2
```

## gunicorn.ini

Save this file as `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.ini` or point the environmentvariable
`$GUNICORN_INI_FILE` to it.

```
import multiprocessing

bind = "0.0.0.0:5000"
workers = multiprocessing.cpu_count() * 2 + 1
threads = multiprocessing.cpu_count() * 2 + 1
chdir = "/pub"
```

## gunicorn.app

Save this file as `$projectdir/gunicorn/volumes/docker-entrypoint-ext.d/gunicorn.app` or point the environmentvariable 
`$GUNICORN_APP_FILE` to it.

```
app.app
```
